# Functional mindset

> "Everyone should go back to COBOL! Make America Procedural Again!"
~ @anonimous

A large program is a costly program, and not just because of the time it takes to build. Size almost always involves complexity, and complexity could confuse programmers. 
Confused programmers, in turn, tend to introduce mistakes (bugs) into programs.

Angular is being advertised as a framework that gives you everything, but teach us a little to none about FP. 
Angular API is highly influenced by OOP ideas and less influenced by FP ideas. True, but, if you pick up Angular, Redux & @ngrx, you will actually encounter key functional concepts at the core of what you learn: "pure functions", "immutability", "state", "mutation", "composition" or "reactive". We like more the idea of triggering "actions" that will invoke a 
"reducer" (pure function & immutable) and/or "@effect" (no-pure Class & immutable) in Redux than invoking a method in a Service Class in Angular.

FP is about pulling programs apart and reassembling them from the same parts, abstracted behind function boundaries, 
but it's not a matter of just applying functions to come up with a result; the goal, rather, is to abstract control flows and
operations on data with functions in order to avoid side effects and reduce mutation of state in your application.

FP it is not new, but becomes very popular these days, because lies at the heart of both of the dominant frameworks out there: React (avoiding shared mutable DOM is the motivation for its architecture and unidirectional data flow) and Angular (we also have unidirectional data flow and RxJS is a library of utility operators that act on streams by way of Higher-order-Functions, its used extensively throughout Angular). 

We already have RxJS reactive extensions bundled up in your Angular application. Embracing their power will allow you to use the principles of Redux without having the need to introduce specific terminologies like actions and reducers.

Redux the core counts similar priciples. Redux organize the application state into simple objects and update this read-only state by replacing it with new state (no mutate). 

@ngrx/store is an RxJS stream, is a Redux implementation for Angular. Implements the Redux architectural pattern and principles using the well-known RxJS observables of Angular.

In simple terms, Functional Programming is a software development style (a way of writing code) like OOP, Imperative Programming,  Procedural Programming, etc. that places a major emphasis on the use of functions. FP requires you to think a bit differently about how to approach the tasks you are facing. It’s not a matter of just applying functions to come up with a result; the goal, 
rather, is to abstract control flows and operations on data with functions in order to avoid side effects and reduce mutation of state in your application.

# Workshop
  * [Chapter 1](#chapter-1) Timebox: ~45 minutes
  * [Chapter 2](#chapter-2)
  * [Chapter 3](#chapter-3)
