# Pure/Inpure game?

```javascript
const minimum = 21;
const checkAge = age => age >= minimum;
checkAge(23); // true 
```
?[Pure or Impure Game?]
-[x] Impure
-[ ] Pure
::: My collapsible section
const minimum = 21; // calling minimum makes it impure  
:::

---
***

```javascript
const checkAge = (age) => {
  const minimum = 21; 
  // pure (inside block scope) We can also make minimum immutable: const immutableState = Object.freeze({ minimum: 21 });
  return age >= minimum;
};
checkAge(1); // false 
```
?[Pure or Impure Game?]
-[ ] Impure
-[x] Pure






# TECHIO> annotate
# Usage

```bash
TECHIO> annotate --file <FILENAME> --position <LINE[:COLUMN]> [OPTIONS] <MESSAGE>
```

# Description
Annotate the client code editor with margin marker and an associated message.


# Options

`-f, --file <FILENAME>` FILENAME is used to select the code editor associated with the displayed annotation. If a client editor filename is contained in the command filename, this editor is selected. If the FILENAME does not match with a client editor filename, the annotation is not displayed.


`-p, --position <LINE[:COLUMN]>` LINE represents the line of the marker. A COLUMN value can be appended to give more details about the precise position of the annotation. LINE and COLUMN are integer values.


`-t, --type <TYPE>` TYPE of the annotation. Valid values include: info, warning, and error. The default value is error.


`-c, --channel <CHANNEL>` The annotation information can also be optionally printed on a CHANNEL.

# Examples
Display a warning annotation on the line 3 of a main.js editor file with the associated message: warn: ';' not found.

```bash
TECHIO> annotate --type "warning" --file "a.js" --position 3 warn: ';' not found
```

Display an error annotation on the line 4 of a Main.java editor file with the following message: error: ';' expected at end of line. It also prints the message on a compilation channel with the name of the file, the line number, and the column.

```bash
TECHIO> annotate --channel "compilation" --file "Main.java" --position 4:8 error: ';' expected at end of line
```

